# DDoS-project
In this research we are going to see how the DDoS attack happens and over the years what are the different researches that have been carried out using Machine Learning algorithms and specifically we are going to run few Machine Learning algorithms and see that is the most effective one which can be implemented by organizations to withstand such prominent attack because the DDoS attack is very complicated and it keeps changing very often so we need to have a robust measures and techniques implemented so that we can withstand such critical attack. The Dataset named CICIDoS2019 is used as this is one of the predominate dataset and covers vast DDoS attack types.

The domain of the dataset which we have been used in this project is from Network Security within the context of intrusion detection. The reason for going with this dataset is because of its characteristics like identifying benign traffic, network traffic data which would help our research on finding the best algorithm for identifying DDoS attack.  This dataset would be used for training and testing the machine learning models. As a part of this research we have tested several algorithms like Random forest, Support Vector Machine, K-nearest Neighbors(KNN), Decision Tree and evaluate them based on performance metrics like accuracy, recall, precision and F1-score. Also we are going see how the network traffic characteristics like packet size, byte rate and flow of the packet  will helps us to identify the normal traffic and DDoS traffic. 

After finding out the best suitable one for detecting the attack based on different performance metrics and also we have tested the model rigorously.  we are going to see what are the future works which can be carried like deploying the trained model in real-time intrusion detection system, train the model more so that it can detect the real time attacks and evaluate the feasibility. 
